Vim

Installation:
vim is usually pre-installed package on your linux machine. You can cehck using the following command:
$ vim --version
If not you can install it on your own using the following command:
$ sudo apt install vim
To create a file and open vim:
$ touch filename
$ vim filename 
Modes:
1. Normal (default mode)
Let's you navigate and manipulate text

2. Insert (i)
Acts like a text editor and lets you write text

You can know the status of which mode you're in in the status bar locates at thebottom of the terminal
"Esc" key is used to na navigate between modes
For example:
Let's say you open a file using vim
Normal mode would be your default mode, this will let you navigate through the text but won't let you edit it.
Press "i"
This will change the mode to Insert mode. Now, you can insert text.
Once you're done, press "esc", this will take you back to the normal mode.

Navigation in normal mode:
You can either use your arrow key to navigate up,down, left and right ot you can use 'h','j','k','l'
h= right
l= left
j= down
k= up

Or you can combine them with numbers.
Example: If you want to move 3 characters to the right the you can press 2l (spaces are counted as charaters.)

You can also navigate at the beginning, end of the next word or beginning of the previous words.
'W' = beginning of the next word
'E' = end of the next word
'B' = start of the previous word

Insert text repeatedly:
Say you want to insert '-' 30 times you don't really need to type - 30 times. Use the following command:
30i Esc
1) Press 30 in normal mode
2) Press i to enter Insert mode
3) Charachter '-'
4) Esc 
Output
------------------------------

Try another example:
type go 20 times:
20igo Esc
gogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogo

Find:
Say you want to find the next occurrence of a character on a given line
Press f'char'. Example: fq
Combine with numbers:
Find 3rd occurence of q: 3fq

Navigate to the beginning of the file: 'gg'
Navigate to the end of the file: 'G'
Navigate to a specific line: linenumber 'G'. Example: Go to line 2: 2G
Navigate to the beginning of the line: '0'
Navigatre to the end of the line: '$'

Find 
Find text
/text will take you to the first occurrence of 'text'
'n' will take you to the next occurence of text
'N' will take you to the previous occurence of text

Replace:
:%s/'replace'/'replacement/'gc'
':' = opens command line
'%s' = string
'replace' = the string which you want to replace
'replacement' = the string with which you want to replace the previous string
'gc' - execute replace
After you press enter you will get options of y,a and so on.'y' means replace the first string found and 'a' means replace all the strings found.

To enter a new line in normal mode press 'o', this will establish a new line and enter Insert mode
To delete a character character under the cursor press 'x'
Delete the entire word to the right of the cursor: dw (keep repeating? press '.' Delete two words: d2w (keep repeating? press '.' 
Replace a sing character: Move the cursor to the character you wat to replace and press 'r' followed byt the characters replacement.


Visual mode 'v'
Lets you select text with navigation keys and then you can perform the aforementioned operations.

Some command line functions:
':w' - Save
':wq' - Save and quit
':q' - Quit
':q!' - Quit without saving

Did some wrong? 
Press 'u' in normal mode to undo and 'Ctrl + u' in Insert mode.

More information for Vim in command line- press ':help' 
